HOW TO INSTALL PYTHON ON WINDOWS

Here is how I installed python on my computer. If you follow the steps below, you can successfully 
install python on your computer also. The steps are as follows:

    1. Visit www.python.org and then download the latest version. The latest version when I downloaded
    mine was python3.12.3.
    2. The next step is to click on download and then it takes you to the download page. You Can 
    choose to download the latest version or choose to download any version of your choice.
    Click on your preferred version and it will download.
    3. After the download is complete, double click on the downloaded file and an installation page 
    would come up.
    4. Click The add path checkbox so that the python path can be set automatically, then click on 
    install now. After installation is complete you will see a page saying "Setup was successful"
    5. Finally, you have to confirm if your python was successfully installed by going to “start”, 
    search and click on cmd which is your command line. Once it opens, type the command 
    “python--version” and the version of the python you installed would be displayed.

Hurray! You’ve successfully installed python on windows.


HOW TO INSTALL VSCODE ON WINDOWS

VsCode is also known as  Visual studio code. It is a text editor used for writing python codes. 
Installing VsCode is also easy, follow the following steps and you will be able to successfully 
install it:
    1. Visit code.visualstudio.com, Click on download for Windows and it would download a file.
    2. Once the download is complete, double click on the downloaded file and an installation 
    page shoild come up.
    3. Click on “I accept the agreement”, click on “next”.
    4. You can choose to check the “Create a desktop icon” if you want an icon to be created
    on your desktop after installation, then click next and then click "install". 
    5. After successful installation click on "finish".

VsCode is successfully installed.


HOW TO INSTALL MYSQL

MYSQL is an open source database management system. To install MYSQL, follow the following steps:
    1. Visit https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/installer/  then download windows MSI installer 
    (Mysql installer community).
    2. Double click the downloaded file and an installation installer would open
    3. Tick ‘developer default’ and click next and then click execute to install packets
    4. Click next for configurations, do not change any settings in network settings.
    5. Create a password, next and execute. Mysql should install successfully. Click on finish.
    6. To confirm if it was successfully installed, go to your command prompt, and then type 
    the command ‘mysql —version’ and the version should display.

MYSQL is installed successfully.


HOW TO INSTALL AND CONFIGURE GIT

To install git successfully and configure, follow the following steps:

    1. Visit https://www.git-scm.com/downloads
    2. Select your operating system. For me I chose windows because I am using a windows system. 
    After clicking on windows, it takes you to another page
    3. Select the one suitable for your system, my system is a 64-bit system so I chose that and 
    downloaded. (if you do not know your system specification, simply right click on the windows 
    icon and click on system)
    4. After downloading, double click on the file, it would ask for administrator privilege, 
    accept it and then an installation wizard should come up.
    5. Agree with the terms and conditions, then Click on install
    6. Tick launch Git Bash and then click on finish. Your Git has been successfully installed.
    7. Once the Git bash launches, the next step is configuration. 
    Use the command git config –global user.name ‘your_username’ then hit enter to set username
    Also use git config –global user.email ’your_email@email.com’ to set youremail.
    8. To confirm if it was set successfully, use git config –list to list configurations. 
    After viewing press q to quit the page.

With the abov steps, you can install and configure git successfully.


Author: Ahamefula Chibundu Uchechi
Email: ahamefulachibundu@gmail.com


